[MUSIC]
>> Brian Holt: So class,
this is a blog post, right?
Everything inside of this div contains
a blog post or is a blog post, right?
So likewise here,
this is as well a blog post, right?
Because these are two tupperwares
that contain exactly the same thing,
they should have the same label.
Also, as a side note,
notice I'm using hyphens.
That's just kind of like the way
that CSS is typically named.
You don't have to, underscores work,
you can do camel casing,
that all works and
there's nothing inherently wrong with it,
just the standard way of doing it,
the way the community has done it.
Is this way is separated by hyphens, and
you'll find that once we start talking
about JavaScript, it's camel case, and
if you do Python, it's underscores, right?
Every language has it's little
different semantic way of doing things.
So what is this?
It's a title of some sort, right?
So, this could be a blog-title, right?
That'd make sense to call it that.
>> Brian Holt: Okay.
What's inside this div?
Like I feel like seriously like we're
sitting, like going through, okay,
this has this, this has this, right?
I mean, it's essentially what
this process is right now.
This contains a bunch of paragraphs,
right?
This contains all of the blog posts,
So, you can call this like Bbog-text,
or blog-paragraphs, right?
Something to that effect.
We'll go with text, right, because this
contains all of the text in the blog post.
And then here, class = what,
this is a blog-paragraph or
if your lazy like me, you just know
that like this is a paragraph, right?
So that's what p stands for
so you can just say blog-p.
They have a good rule over at Google that
kind of adopted is that shorten things
as much as it make sense to you, right?
So, like in the example
that they give is like,
if it's called navigation,
if you call it nav, right?
Everyone knows what nav means, but
if you call, if you're trying
to like label an author and
you see atr, that makes sense to you,
it's not gonna make sense to someone else.
So, stick with author.
Write out all of author.
>> Brian Holt: So, I implore you to
shorten things as much as it makes
sense to.
And I think in this sense
blog-p makes sense.
So, these are all the same so we are going
to give them all the same classes, okay?
Now, the key here is that we're
going through the second post.
But we've already given these names out,
right,
we should definitely not
re-invent the wheel.
So, this was a blog-title, right?
Because I believe that's what
we called it up here, right?
>> Brian Holt: Blog-text
>> Brian Holt: Blog-p.
>> Brian Holt: And blog-p,
oops.
>> Speaker 2: Eduardo's asking, I thought
that a blog post can target the p
tag using .blog-post, P,
why use classes on the paragraphs?
Isn't that using a lot of extra classes?
Bad design?
>> Brian Holt: That's a good question.
We're going to start talking about Brian's
opinion versus everyone else's opinion.
There's certain people that
would definitely say that.
There's a couple of good reasons
why I feel like it's a good
idea to give everything a class.
The first one being that, it's nice to
just give everything a label, right?
Just assume that everything you stick
in the fridge is gonna have a label.
Because when you pull it back out later,
you're gonna know instantly what it is.
The second part of that, and
let's just delve into the way
the browser works real quick.
When you're talking about CSS, I guess
we'll address more on that later, but
there's CSS performance implementations
that make it better to use
a class rather than to use an ID.
It's a minor consideration,
because the browser's CSS
engine is really, really fast.
But it makes your CSS
faster to use classes.
But going back more towards
>> Brian Holt: Like the semantic thing.
It's just easier to label everything.
It's more of ribose for sure right?
You have to type a lot more.
But in my opinion this
makes things easier.
Now, let's say, I have a blog post, right?
But now I have, let's say I put a
paragraph at the top, that's like a TLDR.
Do you know what that is?
Too Long, Didnt Read.
That's essentially,
like a little summary, right?
Say, I put a little summary
text at the top, right?
And I said, like up here,
like p.blog-summary.
Sorry.
There's a special trick that you can use.
I'm super lazy I don't like typing things
so you can hit p.blog-summary and hit tab,
it'll I'll complete it for you.
>> Brian Holt: Anyway.
>> Speaker 3: Is that
just this good pen or?
>> Brian Holt: You can get sublimed at
the same thing, but it's called EMMET,
you have to install it.
Yeah, E-M-M-E-T, I can't live without it,
I use it every day.
So, force of habit.
Okay so,
discussing what Eduardo I think asked,
is that now I have two different
kinds of paragraphs in here, right?
This was when I added later.
If I styled everything based on
just paragraphs or just the p tag,
Now this would receive the same style
which is not what I want, right?
I want to have them different styles.
So, now that I have different
classes on each one of them,
if I had another different
type of the same tag later?
I can style it differently.
>> Brian Holt: If that doesn't make
complete sense to you right now,
it will make sense later so, but
that kind of address is that?
And the other thing is you're
learning like Brian Holt
flavoured CSS right now,
which I think I'm pretty good at.
Someone pays me to do it and
they've done it for a while.
So, it can't be that bad or maybe it can.
[LAUGH] Yeah?
>> Speaker 4: My question is about
the new container tags in HTML5, so
at what point do you leverage
those in this approach?
Or do you, what's the trade off to
do it yourself versus use those?
>> Brian Holt: So, that's a good question.
HTML5 has a bunch of like new
kind of like container tags,
and when I say container tags,
something like div.
One of them that we've already
talked about is article, right?.
These are actually kind of articles,
right, like blog posts or
like individual little articles.
It would be better to call
these articles for sure.
So, rather then call this like div,
call this article.
And again you have to change
this down here, right?
Because now your Tupperware just got
a little bit more specialized, right?
That you look at this, and he's like,
this is like some sort of complete article
in here, that's why you would use it.
As far as, you notice, that it's still
rendering the exact same thing over there.
Nothing has changed over here.
It's just little cues for
yourself later to pick up later.
It's like, that's what this does.
It also has accessibility implications.
So, like e-readers, right?
So, when someone that's blind
is using the internet, they have
things called e-readers that go through
and essentially read the internet to them.
And so these e-readers pick up
really well on these article queues.
It's like.
There's an article right here,
this is important.
Like this is what you,
this is kinda wanna read, right?
Because the e-reader doesn't want it like,
here's the homepage, it doesn't want to go
to like the navigation, so
it'll skip the nav part of this side but
it'll go straight to
the articles which is awesome.
We wanna make the internet
accessible to everyone.
Great question, so article,
section is another one,
if you have different sections of
your website, it's a good one to use.
Nav is another one,
like where you have navigation.
Again, the e-readers will just
automatically just skip over nav,
because who wants to know about your
navigation unless they wanna use it?
>> Brian Holt: Stuff like that.
>> Speaker 4: Are you still gonna use
classes within those new tags then?
>> Brian Holt: Definitely.
>> Speaker 4: Just so that you can
point to those things uniquely at CSS.
>> Brian Holt: Yep, precisely.
And again, I have an article right
there that's called blog post.
But lets say, two years down the road,
I want a different type of article,
all right?
This is a guest article or
something like that.
They are now individually labeled.
I do not have to go back and
change things.
Like, that's, I hate going back and
changing code that didn't have to change,
right?
Like if I had just named
it better the first place,
I wouldn't have had to change it.
So, that I'm always guarding
about doing future work, right?
I'd rather do five minutes of work now
rather than two hours of work later.
>> Brian Holt: Good questions.
More questions?
>> Brian Holt: Cool.
>> Brian Holt: So was this painful?
Was this really shitty to do?
It should be, cuz I don't like it, but.
>> Brian Holt: This become extremely
useful once we get in in the CSS because
now this is all labeled up and
like all the Tupperware's labeled.
We can just like now send CSS to go in,
change everything and
it's really easy to do.
So again, spending a little bit of time
now will make things a lot easier later.
So we didnt do the IDs.
I mean what I would do here,
let's just go do it real quick.
So, first of all I'm just
gonna change this back to div.
>> Brian Holt: Something you
might notice I'm doing as well.
Is you can have multiple cursors
in code pen as well as in sublime.
Which is the thing that
we had you all install.
So, like i can select this and
I can select this and this and
I can change them all at once.
So, know this is thing, right.
I'm just doing that with Cmd-click in Mac,
I'm pretty sure it's like Ctrl-Click in
Windows, maybe window button,
I don't remember.
>> Brian Holt: Anyway, if that's
weirding you out, that's what I'm doing.
Okay, so
I said let's go get the blog post IDs.
So, let's just say,
this would be like blog-post-1.
Id=blog-post-2, something like that.
Something that is,
you can guarantee to your future self,
there will never be another one
of these on the page, right.
So like if I said like Blog
post primary or something like that,
that's harder to say,
I can guarantee I'm never going to have
a primary blog post on the page again.
That's kinda the difference there.
If you say, there's only going to
be one first blog post, right?
So, that's a good one to use.
That make sense?
Again, I only put ID's when I
absolutely have to use them.
On the whole,
I try to just make everything a class.
>> Brian Holt: Cuz IDs
are inherently not reusable, right?
Because they are unique you can never
use them again, classes are not and
I'm always looking to like right one piece
of code and have to apply in many places.
>> Brian Holt: Which again, once we
arrive to CSS we'll make more sense.